Code Time
=========

[Code Time](https://www.software.com/code-time) is an open source plugin
for automatic programming metrics and time tracking in Visual Studio.
Track your productivity, protect valuable code time, and stay in flow.

Join our community of over 150,000 developers who use Code Time to
reclaim time for focused, uninterrupted coding.

Getting Started
---------------

Create an account to keep track of your coding data and unlock access to
advanced data visualizations in the Code Time dashboard and web app. You
can customize your profile, such as your work hours and office type, for
advanced time tracking. You can also connect Outlook or Google Calendar
to visualize your code time vs. meetings in a single calendar.

Registering an account also lets you connect multiple code editors on
multiple devices using the same email account. Your code time data will
sync automatically across your devices.

Open Code Time in the sidebar by clicking the Code Time timer in the
status bar. Click **Sign up** to create a new account, or click **Log
in** to sign into an existing account.

Protect Code Time
-----------------

Flow Mode makes it easy to eliminate distractions, mute notifications,
and stay focused when you are in flow.

If you connect a Slack workspace, you can pause notifications, update
your profile status, and set your presence to *away* right from Visual
Studio.

Track Development Metrics
-------------------------

Your coding stats can help you understand how you are improving over
time.

Your status bar shows you in real-time how many hours and minutes you
code each day. A rocket will appear if your active code time exceeds
your daily average on this day of the week.

To see an overview of your coding activity and project metrics, open the
**Code Time panel**. Click **Dashboard** to open your personalized Code
Time dashboard in a new editor tab. Your dashboard summarizes your
coding data—such as your code time by project, lines of code, and
keystrokes—today, yesterday, last week, and over the last 90 days.

Your *time in editor* is the total time you have spent in your editor
today. Your *active code time* is the time you spend actively writing
and editing code in your editor or IDE. It captures periods of intense
focus and flow. Each metric shows how you compare today to your personal
averages. Each average is calculated by day of week over the last 90
days (e.g. a Friday average is an average of all previous Fridays).

Explore Data Visualizations
---------------------------

Click **More data at software.com** in the Code Time sidebar or visit
[app.software.com](https://app.software.com) to see more advanced data
visualizations. You will need to create a free Software account to use
the web app. In the Code Time dashboard, you will be able to track:

**Active code time.** Visualize your daily active code time. See
productivity trends compared to weekly and monthly averages. See how you
stack up against the Software community of over 150,000 developers.

**Top projects.** See how much time you spend per project per week. Get
a breakdown of your top projects right in your dashboard.

**Work-life balance.** Connect your Google or Outlook Calendar to
visualize meeting time versus code time. See how much coding happens
during work hours versus nights and weekends so you can find ways to
improve your work-life balance.

Invite Your Team
----------------

With Teams, you can defend code time, see the impact of meetings, and
improve work-life balance across your entire team.

Remember, your data is for you, no one else. Your team data is for your
team. When you create a team, you will only see aggregated and
anonymized summary data at the team level—available to everyone on that
team. In addition, to protect individual privacy, the minimum team size
is five members.

To create a team, visit the [team
dashboard](https://app.software.com/team-dashboard) in the web app to
get started. It's free to create a team, but you can upgrade to a
premium plan to unlock additional features.

It’s Safe, Secure, and Free
---------------------------

**We never access your code:** We do not process, send, or store your
proprietary code. We only provide metrics about programming, and we make
it easy to see the data we collect.

**Your data is private:** We will never share your individually
identifiable data with your boss. When you join a team, we only show
aggregated and anonymized data. We encourage you to read [Data Privacy
Matters](https://www.software.com/data-privacy), an overview of the
steps we take to protect your privacy and security.

**Free for you, forever:** We provide 90 days of data history for free,
forever. We provide [premium plans](https://www.software.com/pricing)
for advanced features and historical data access.

Code Time also collects basic usage metrics to help us make informed
decisions about our roadmap.

Join the Community
------------------

Enjoying Code Time? Let us know how it’s going by tweeting or following
us at [@software_hq](https://twitter.com/software\_hq).

Have any questions? Create an issue in the [Code Time
project](https://github.com/swdotcom/swdc-visualstudio) on GitHub or
send us an email at <support@software.com> and we’ll get back to you as
soon as we can.
